---
title: Latch-Up 2025
layout: default
head:
  title: "Latch-Up 2025: May 2-4 in Santa Barbara, CA, USA"
  description: |
    The Latch-Up conference is a weekend of presentations and networking
    dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open
    source digital design community, much like its European sister conference
    ORConf, run by the FOSSi Foundation.

    Latch-Up 2025 is from Friday to Sunday May 2-4, 2025 in Santa Barbara, CA.
  image: https://www.fossi-foundation.org/latch-up/2025/latchup-logo.png
eventbriteEventId: 1130389969829
---

::ff-signpost-banner
---
title: Latch-Up 2025
class: "bg-[url('/images/banner-orconf.jpg')]"
---

Friday to Sunday May 2&ndash;4, 2025 in Santa Barbara, CA, USA

The Latch-Up conference is a weekend of presentations and networking dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open source digital design community, much like its European sister conference ORConf, run by the FOSSi Foundation.
::


::ff-supporting-content
## Latch-Up 2025 awaits you!

The FOSSi Foundation is proud to announce Latch-Up, a conference dedicated to free and open source silicon to be held over the weekend of Friday May 2 to Sunday May 4 in Santa Barbara, CA, USA.

Latch-Up is a weekend of presentations and networking for the open source digital design community, much like its European sister conference [ORConf](https://orconf.org).

Questions? Send an email to [latch-up@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:latch-up@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Question).
::


::ff-container

::ff-cards

  ::ff-card{class="col-span-2"}

  ## Register

  Latch-Up is free to attend.
  If you are able to, please help running the event by considering a "Pay what you want" ticket with an donation.
  If you are attending Latch-Up on behalf of their company are encouraged to donate in the form of a professional ticket.
  Please choose *one* option in the checkout process -- you do *not* need a "Free" ticket in addition to a "Pay what you want" ticket.

  :ff-eventbrite-embedded-checkout{:eventId=eventbriteEventId type="modal" buttonText="Register for Latch-Up 2025"}

  ## Submit a talk

  Presentations are submitted through :FfEventbriteLink{:eventId=eventbriteEventId text="the Eventbrite registration interface"}.

  Please make your submissions as early as you can, as the presentation slots are likely to fill up quickly.

  We aim to give as many people as possible the opportunity to present their exciting work on free and open source silicon.
  To accomodate for that we will determine the duration of a full talk once all submissions are in.
  Historically, full talks ran for 10 minutes (plus time for questions).
  Lighning talks will be 3 minutes.
  The exact amount of time you'll get will be communicated on acceptance of your talk.

  ## Code of conduct

  We ask all Latch-Up participants to adhere to the the [FOSSi Foundation code of conduct](/code-of-conduct) throughout the event.

  ## Let's talk!

  Join the [#latchup2025:fossi-foundation.org](https://element.fossi-chat.org/#/room/#latchup2025:fossi-foundation.org) Matrix room to chat with other participants at the conference, share additional information about the talks, about traveling to and from Santa Barbara, and what else comes to your mind!

  ::

  ::ff-card

  ## Sponsors

  ::ff-event-sponsor-container
    :ff-event-sponsor{src="sponsor_jane_street.png" alt="Jane Street" link="https://www.janestreet.com/"}
    :ff-event-sponsor{src="sponsor_hrt.png" alt="Hudson River Trading" link="https://www.hudsonrivertrading.com/"}
  ::

  Latch-Up is free to attend, but we aim to provide catering and the like during the event. Latch-Up is also a great way to get your company or brand in front of lots of engineers and hackers on the day, and thousands more through recordings of the event.

  Please get in touch at [latch-up@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:latch-up@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Sponsorship) if you'd like to explore sponsorship opportunities.

  A variety of sponsorship packages are available for this year's Latch-Up.
  You'll find all of the details in our [sponsorship prospectus](latch-up_2025_sponsorship_prospectus.pdf).

  Latch-Up is organized by volunteers on behalf of the FOSSi Foundation. We are currently looking for more people to help out with arrangements and putting on the event, so please do [email us](mailto:latch-up@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Volunteering) if you would like to volunteer for during the event with setup, AV, or even just local knowledge so we can plan the weekend better.
  ::
::

## Schedule

### Friday, May 2: Conference

::ff-event-talks-overview{csvfile="/latch-up/2025/talks" view="schedule" scheduleday="Fri"}
::

### Saturday, May 3: Conference, lighning talks, and social event

::ff-event-talks-overview{csvfile="/latch-up/2025/talks" view="schedule" scheduleday="Sat"}
::

### Sunday, May 4: Unconference and workshops

On Sunday we will have an unconference and workshops to have more time for focused discussions.
Even though the exact schedule and topics to talk about will be created together at the event, you can expect in-depth discussions with key stakeholders in Free and Open Source Silicon Projects, demo sessions, hackathrons, and more.

For exampe, at last year's ORConf we had fantastic sessions on
* cocotb
* EU Roadmap
* Amaranth
* Open Source DFT and in-field debug
* Clash and Haskell
* Surfer

What deep-dives will we have at Latch-Up?
It's up to all of us!

## Talks

::ff-event-talks-overview{csvfile="/latch-up/2025/talks" view="details"}
::


## Venue

Latch-Up 2025 will be held at [Henley Hall](https://iee.ucsb.edu/henley-hall), University of California, Santa Barbara, USA (Henley Hall, 552 University Road, Santa Barbara, CA 93106–5160).

**Paid parking** is available at [Parking Structure 18 - Mesa Parking Structure at the university campus](https://www.map.ucsb.edu/?id=1982#!ce/64251?ct/58207,60251,89899,90724?m/645028?s/) ([view on Google Maps](https://maps.app.goo.gl/KKdSMhPisGDzuKFNA)).
You can pay for the parking by card on site.

Further information about campus parking can be found on the [UCSB website](https://www.tps.ucsb.edu/parking-ucsb).
