---
title: Roadmap and Recommendations for Open Source EDA in Europe
layout: default
head:
  title: "Roadmap and Recommendations for Open Source EDA in Europe"
---

::ff-signpost-banner
---
title: Roadmap and Recommendations for Open Source EDA in Europe
class: "bg-[url('/images/banner-roadmap.png')]"
---
Open-source EDA tools play a crucial role in supporting the ambitious objectives of the European Chips Act. By enhancing accessibility and fostering the development of expertise, they also contribute to strengthening technological sovereignty.
::

::ff-content-long

The FOSSi Foundation supports a community-wide effort to provide European policy
makers with an actionable roadmap for future funding of the open source EDA
ecosystem ([see our blog post](/blog/2024-08-16-roadmap)). We are currently
collecting community feedback on the current working document.

## Call for Action

Below you can find the current version of the roadmap document. It is a *work in
progress*, but we need your input at this phase. There are some raw inputs still
in the document, but the general structure and main talking points for the focus
areas are stable now.

We would like to get your input! There is a [recording of our presentation of
this phase at ORConf 2024](https://youtu.be/GNBHe6HSCNs), which includes some of
the background and goals of the roadmp. You can find the [slides
here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1c1SjOVsKGGEhfZ9z0O9kjgo5ILczMkSD/view?usp=sharing).

We invite you to submit your input to the current working state of the document.
Please try to
- provide input on a small granularity, multiple submissions (easier
tracking)
- stay brief: make the case briefly and highlight relation to industry relevance
- not argue against certain opportunities: there are still more steps

Please provide your feedback *before October 15*.

::center
[Current version of the roadmap document (October 04)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1g0OoX0xgbbjxVbjwBZAWZaXujy2GIor2/view?usp=drive_link)

[Feedback form](https://forms.gle/L7NwW7z6uJAtTZZD6)
::

::