---
title: Latch-Up 2024
layout: default
head:
  title: "Latch-Up 2024: April 19-21, 2024 in Boston, MA, USA"
  description: |
    The Latch-Up conference is a weekend of presentations and networking
    dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open
    source digital design community, much like its European sister conference
    ORConf, run by the FOSSi Foundation.

    Latch-Up 2024 is from Friday to Sunday April 19-21, 2024 in Boston, MA, USA.
  image: https://www.fossi-foundation.org/images/latchup-logo.png
eventbriteEventId: 803894890257
---

::ff-signpost-banner
---
title: Latch-Up 2024
class: "bg-[url('/images/banner-orconf.jpg')]"
---

Friday to Sunday April 19&ndash;21, 2024 in Boston, MA, USA

The Latch-Up conference is a weekend of presentations and networking dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open source digital design community, much like its European sister conference ORConf, run by the FOSSi Foundation.
::


::ff-supporting-content
## You are all invited!

The FOSSi Foundation is proud to announce Latch-Up, a conference dedicated to free and open source silicon to be held over the weekend of Friday April 19 to Sunday April 21 in Boston, MA, USA.

Latch-Up is a weekend of presentations and networking for the open source digital design community, much like its European sister conference ORConf.

So save the date, [register to attend](#tickets-and-registration), and submit a presentation or proposal if you have a project or idea on the topic to share!

Questions? Ping the organizers via [@LatchUpConf](https://twitter.com/LatchUpConf) or send an email to [latch-up@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:latch-up@fossi-foundation.org?subject=something).
::


::ff-container

## Submit a talk

We encourage anybody involved in the open source semiconductor engineering space to come along and share your work or experience. Presentations slots as short as 3 minute lightning-talks and up to 30 minute talks including Q and A are available.

So if you've designed, worked on or even just used open source IP cores and/or management systems, verification IP, build flows, SoCs, simulators, synthesis tools, FPGA and ASIC implementation tools, languages and DSLs, compilers, or anything related we'd love to have you join us to share your experience.

Presentations are submitted through the registration process and we will let you know if your presentation was accepted.

## Tickets and registration

Attendance of Latch-Up is free of charge.
To help us organizing the event, you are required to :FfEventbriteLink{:eventId=eventbriteEventId text="register on Eventbrite"}.
**Please register as soon as possible, as we have to close registrations as soon as the room capacity is reached.**


**Attendees who are joining us at Latch-Up on behalf of their company** and/or can claim the conference as professional training expense are encouraged to :FfEventbriteLink{:eventId=eventbriteEventId text="purchase a professional ticket"}.
These ticket sales help us provide all that we do at Latch-Up and keep the event accessible to all members of the community.
Professional ticket holders are able to get their company name printed on their name badge and receive a special treat.

We ask all Latch-Up participants to adhere to the the [FOSSi Foundation code of conduct](/code-of-conduct) throughout the event.

:ff-eventbrite-embedded-checkout{:eventId=eventbriteEventId type="modal" buttonText="Register for Latch-Up 2024"}

## Sponsoring and volunteering at Latch-Up

Latch-Up is free to attend, but we aim to provide catering and the like during the event. Latch-Up is also a great way to get your company or brand in front of lots of engineers and hackers on the day, and thousands more through recordings of the event. So please [get in touch](mailto:latch-up@fossi-foundation.org) if you'd like to explore sponsorship opportunities.

Latch-Up is organized by volunteers on behalf of the FOSSi Foundation. We are currently looking for more people to help out with arrangements and putting on the event, so please do [email us](mailto:latch-up@fossi-foundation.org) if you would like to volunteer for during the event with setup, AV, or even just local knowledge so we can plan the weekend better.

## Venue

[Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge](https://www.mit.edu/)

More detailed information coming later.

## Programme

Preliminary programme. More to come later.

### Beyond EDA lies Edalize

#### Olof Kindgren

Originally a part of the award-winning FuseSoC, Edalize is now a stand-alone Python library for interfacing with EDA (Electronic Design Automation) tools. It allows users to programmatically construct, manage, and run simulations, synthesis, and other EDA workflows for digital design projects. Edalize abstracts the backend tools by providing a common interface for 40+ different EDA tools such as Verilator, Icarus Verilog, Yosys, Vivado, Quartus, OpenROAD and others.

The purpose of Edalize is to make it easier to integrate EDA tools into other systems and frameworks, such as continuous integration setups, by providing a consistent API. It also aims to simplify the process of running EDA tools across different environments and platforms.

This presentation will look at the latest and upcoming changes to Edalize that intends to make it easier to integrate in existing build setups and more flexible to support more complex workflows.

### MRPHS: Enabling Transaction-level Deductive Formal Verification Through PDVL

#### Tobias Strauch

Theorem-Proving is also called “Deductive Formal Verification, DFV”. In this presentation I will give an overview of open source DFV projects as well as introduce my own project. I developed the language PDVL to revolutionize design verification. One of the verification disciplines that PDVL will have a major impact on is DFV. In this presentation, I will show how the aspect-oriented and transaction-level based approach of the Programming Design and Verification Language (PDVL) provides important advantages for transforming your design and verification goals into Gallina code that can be used for assertions and theorem proving by "The Rocq Prover” (formerly known as the Coq Proof Assistant). A regular paper on this work was accepted at the DATE 2024 conference. The open-source files can be found here: PDVL specification: https://github.com/cloudxcc/PDVL PDVL examples: https://github.com/cloudxcc/PDVL_Examples MRPHS compiler: https://github.com/cloudxcc/MRPHS

### Spade: An HDL Inspired By Modern Software Languages

#### Frans Skarman

In the software world, the state of the art of programming languages has evolved continuously over the past three decades. In the hardware description domain however, the development has been much slower with most people still using VHDL or Verilog which originated in the 80s. Spade is a new HDL with the goal of bringing innovations and ideas from software languages into the hardware world. In this talk, I will first briefly introduce the basics of the Spade language. Then I will demonstrate how some stand-out features such as native constructs for pipelining, the rich rust-inspired type system, and ports modelled using affine types can be used to increase developer productivity, especially when refactoring or integrating existing code. Spade is an Open Source project licensed under the EUPL-1.2. You can learn more at https://spade-lang.org/

### CACE Study: Open source analog and mixed-signal design flow

#### Tim Edwards

With the recent introduction of multiple open-source foundry process design kits (PDKs), open source digital flows for custom chip design have largely standardized around yosys and OpenROAD/openlane. Open source design flows for analog and mixed-signal circuits have lagged behind. Most designers use a combination of xschem, ngspice, klayout, and magic. But there is little standardization of project structure, specification, testbench methodology, and datasheet generation. The CACE system, originally designed for the Efabless platform, addresses the need for a system around the specification of circuit performance, with a standard way to simulate circuits over all process, voltage, and temperature corners, and automatically collate results into a datasheet of electrical and physical parameters with maximum/typical/minimum values, pass/fail results, and tables and graphs on demand. This presentation explores the capabilities of CACE and looks at current and future development directions.

### Switchboard: Calling All Hardware Models

#### Steven Herbst

Switchboard is a high-performance and easy-to-use tool for simulating a mixture of digital hardware models, developed by Zero ASIC. Models can be represented with RTL simulation, RTL implemented on FPGAs, C++, or Python, with inter-model communication happening over fixed, unidirectional connections that mimic how a real system would be wired together. Under the hood, Switchboard connections are implemented as shared-memory queues, making them quite fast: up to 1 GB/s bandwidth / 200 ns latency. Because the queues have a simple, standardized memory layout, they are convenient to access from RTL implemented on FPGAs. Switchboard powers the multi-chiplet cloud FPGA emulation system on Zero ASIC's website, where it is fast enough to boot Linux and run ML models on emulated hardware in near realtime. We also use Switchboard on a smaller scale for running Python-based block-level tests; its Universal Memory Interface API, combined with its low setup overhead, makes Switchboard an efficient way to write one-off tests. In other words, Switchboard is fast enough to run big workloads, but easy enough to use that it has become a go-to for daily hardware design tasks.

### From an Open-Source ISA to Open-Source HW to Open-Source Silicon

#### Luca Bertaccini

In this talk, we will provide a comprehensive overview of the PULP platform's open-source activities and roadmap: starting from an open-source instruction set architecture (ISA) to open-source hardware IPs to the employment of open-source EDA tools. In addition, we will cover the benefits we experienced thanks to this open-source model, the challenges we overcame in the past years, and the ones we are currently facing.

### A History of TL-Verilog Google Summer of Code Projects under FOSSi Foundation

#### Steve Hoover

Every summer since 2005, Google has sponsored students to learn about and contribute to open-source projects in Google Summer of Code (GSoC). Since 2016, the Free and Open Source Silicon (FOSSi) Foundation has served as an "umbrella organization" in Google Summer of Code, coordinating projects related to open-source circuit design and EDA. Transaction-Level Verilog (TL-Verilog) is a technology that has evolved over this period of time, and it has been utilized in numerous projects under FOSSi Foundation since 2018 as well as two this past year in CHIPS Alliance. Student contributions in GSoC have been instrumental in advancing the ecosystem for TL-Verilog, the accessibility of hardware design, and the quality of semiconductor education. This talk will provide a very brief overview of TL-Verilog and survey the contributions of the fifteen GSoC projects that utilized it. These include: FPGA-accelerated web applications, block-based circuit design (like scratch.mit.edu), a virtual FPGA lab, formal verification innovation, a transaction-level component library, a tensor core study, simulation visualization, many-core projects, and TL-Verilog support in other open-source infrastructure and Open MPW shuttles. These projects resulted in publications, conference awards, and prominent blog posts.

### HDLAgent, Enhancing Hardware Language in the age of LLMs

#### Jose Renau

Large Language Models (LLMs) are revolutionizing the programming language landscape, enabling beginners and transforming code generation. This work explores the challenges and implications of integrating LLMs with Hardware Description Languages (HDLs).

### Caster: An Open-source E-Ink Controller

#### Wenting Zhang

In this talk I will present the Caster project. Caster is an open-source low-latency electrophoretics display (like E-Ink) controller soft IP design, offering support for wide range of screens, flexible screen update control, and multiple dithering options. An reference implementation of an Eink monitor using the Caster on an FPGA is also provided, with fully open-source RTL, PCB and enclosure design.

### Multiarch in situ; running multiple architectures simultaneously.

#### Kurt Keville

Modern server architectures now allow us to consider heterogeneous architecture mixes to accommodate particular processing priorities. For instance, it is quite common to have an arm SOC with equal numbers of big and LITTLE cores such as those used in their DynamIQ enabled products. System managers can then decide how to use process migration to maximize allocation of power and speed in the same system. Our work extends this analysis to other products from different vendors and designs.

### UMI: Universal Memory Interface

#### Andreas Olofsson

Standardized bus architectures like Wishbone and AXI have helped designers construct complex systems from a basic set of interface compliant building blocks ("IPs"). The bus approach has worked well for decades, but requires a large number of wires to implement and does't scale particularly well. For PCB design and System-In-Package design, there are orders of magnitude less wires available and we need to take a fundamentally different approach to communication. The Universal Memory Interface (UMI) is a transaction based communication standard for accessing memory through request-response message exchange patterns, designd to work equally well for complex System-On-Chip designs and chiplet based System-In-Package design. UMI includes a complete open source reference implementation that has been used to design and manufacture four different chiplets in a 12nm CMOS process.

### Open Source Hardware: Hacking Silicon for Fun (instead of profit)

#### Troy Benjegerdes

This is an updated version of a talk I gave at Systems We Love in Minneapolis in 2017 (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cyfSgcQeWqc), listing what's happened between then and now, and how far we might be from the future where orbital farmers design and fabricate replacement silicon for space rated robots.

### IHP Open Source PDK: Announcement, Setup, Current State and Experiences, and look ahead

#### Frank Vater

Main focus of this talk is the SG13G2 Open Source PDK for IHP 130nm BiCMOS technology. The current state of our activities will be given for the analogue as well as for the digital PDK including design flow with open source tools. Some more details on first experiences for schematic driven design, simulation, layout, DRC and LVS will be pointed out. Furthermore, already known challenges analogue and digital design flow and open issues on open source tool chain will be addressed. The talk will be closed with a road map for future work.

### Tiny Tapeout: custom silicon open to all

#### Pat Deegan

Tiny Tapeout is an educational project that makes it easier and cheaper than ever to get your digital designs manufactured on a real chip, and it's capabilities have been growing in leaps and bounds: speed, analog support, so many goodies. We'll walk through the process, touch on how it all works and explore the possibilities.

### Clean up your EDA flows with tclint

#### Noah Moroze

The process of realizing a chip design in silicon often requires writing complex EDA flows in Tcl, an old scripting language full of pitfalls and quirks. If not developed carefully, these codebases become hard to read and maintain, and may have subtle bugs. In addition, testing and debugging this code can be very time-consuming due to long EDA tool runtimes. tclint is an open-source utility that helps developers efficiently write and maintain clean and bug-free EDA tool flows. It does so by statically analyzing Tcl code and flagging possible stylistic and functional issues. By adopting tclint, EDA flow developers can apply modern software engineering best practices to flow development, saving time while producing higher-quality and more maintainable code. In this talk, we show how tclint can be used in practice to clean up flows, providing examples of usage in real-world open source projects and bugs it has found in these projects. In addition, we discuss future plans for tclint, including further tailoring it to EDA use-cases via plugins for checking usage of EDA tool-specific commands. Compared to prior work, tclint is designed to be simpler to install and easier to use. If your work entails writing or maintaining Tcl code, then we hope this talk inspires you to try out tclint for yourself and contribute any feedback you may have!

### CedarEDA for open source silicon

#### Keno Fischer

The Cedar EDA suite of tools is a brand-new, commercial-grade suite of tools for analog chip design. Written from the ground up with performance and openness in mind, Cedar uses a library-based design to easily allow users to customize their tools, share there improvements and build fully custom workflows while making use of best practices from the software world including continuous integration and verification and modern package management. Cedar comes with out of the box support for the open source Sky130 and GF180 PDKs and is being made freely available to the open hardware community. In this talk, I will give a brief tour of some of the cool new things Cedar lets you do and why you might want to consider using it for your next open source chip tapeout.

### Application of AI-computer vision based software to rate and manage roads surface condition

#### Max Faramarzi

Application of AI-computer vision based software to rate and manage roads surface condition

### Open-source resources for learning the Bluespec HL-HDLs along with RISC-V

#### Rishiyur Nikhil

We will provide an overview of free and open-source course-material (textbook, slides, working code, etc) that we have recently developed for simultaneously learning the Bluespec HL-HDLs (High-Level Hardware Design Languages), basic principles of RISC-V, and simple pipelined CPUs.

### Chisel 6 and beyond

#### Jack Koenig

Chisel (formerly Chisel 3) is a hardware generator language embedded in the Scala general-purpose programming language. It empowers hardware designers to write reusable hardware generators to improve the productivity of design. At Latch Up last year, we discussed the new MLIR FIRRTL compiler and how that would enable more rapid feature development for Chisel. Today we are proud to discuss several of the new features of Chisel 6 and the coming Chisel 7 which improve verification and other non-design aspects of using the language.

### PyHDL-IF: An Easy-to-Use Python/HDL Cross-Calling Interface

#### Matthew Ballance

Python, through libraries such as cocotb, can be used to interface at the signal level to Verilog and VHDL hardware description language (HDL) simulations, and can offer a very productive alternative to the SystemVerilog/UVM testbench methodology. But, what if you have an existing SystemVerilog or UVM testbench and want to call a reference model implemented in Python? What if you want to write tests in Python and call tasks on an existing protocol verification IP (VIP) implemented in SystemVerilog? Existing approaches often involve complexities of generating C/C++ wrapper code and getting it properly compiled and linked with the simulator. Often, the wrapper-generation process must be performed by the end user, making it more difficult to produce reusable libraries that are easily used by others. In addition, differences between simulator implementations of multithreading and Python’s co-routine implementation impose significant obstacles to implementing time-consuming behavior that spans HDL and Python code. The PyHDL-IF family of Python libraries provides a (very-nearly) pure-Python interface that enables object-oriented cross-calling between Python and HDL environments. PyHDL-IF enables Python to be easily incorporated in SystemVerilog environments and enables cocotb environments to interact with the HDL environment via task calls.

::
