---
title: ORConf 2025
layout: default
head:
  title: "ORConf 2025: September 12-14, 2025 in Valencia, Spain"
  description: |
    The ORConf conference is a weekend of presentations and networking
    dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open
    source semiconductor community, and is run by volunteers from the FOSSi Foundation.

    ORConf 2025 is from Friday to Sunday September 12-14, 2025 in Valencia, Spain.
  image: https://www.fossi-foundation.org/orconf/2024/orconf-logo.png
eventbriteEventId: 1307787691189
---

::ff-signpost-banner
---
title: ORConf 2025
class: "bg-[url('/images/banner-orconf.jpg')]"
---

Friday to Sunday September 12&ndash;14, 2025 in Valencia, Spain

The ORConf conference is a weekend of presentations and networking dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open source silicon community, and is run by the FOSSi Foundation and its volunteers.
::


::ff-supporting-content
## ORConf, the sunshine edition

The FOSSi Foundation is proud to announce the 11th installment of ORConf, a conference dedicated to free and open source silicon to be held over the weekend of Friday September 12 to Sunday September 14 in [Valencia, Spain](#venue). It is also the 10th birthday of FOSSi Foundation, which was incorporated at ORConf 2015 in Geneva.

ORConf is a weekend of presentations and networking for the open source silicon community. Browse through previous installments of ORConf [here](https://fossi-foundation.org/events/archive).

Questions? Ping the organizers via email at [orconf@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:orconf@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Question).
::




::ff-container

::ff-cards

  ::ff-card{class="col-span-2"}

  ## Register

  ORConf is free to attend.
  If you are able to, please help running the event by considering a "Pay what you want" ticket with an donation.
  If you are attending ORConf on behalf of their company are encouraged to donate in the form of a professional ticket.
  Please choose *one* option in the checkout process -- you do *not* need a "Free" ticket in addition to a "Pay what you want" ticket.

  :ff-eventbrite-embedded-checkout{:eventId=eventbriteEventId type="modal" buttonText="Register for ORConf 2025"}

  ## Submit a talk

  Presentations are submitted through :FfEventbriteLink{:eventId=eventbriteEventId text="the Eventbrite registration interface"}.

  **We are unlikely to accept any further full-length talks. Lightning talks (3 minutes) can still be submitted, also during the conference.**

  ## Code of conduct

  We ask all ORConf participants to adhere to the the [FOSSi Foundation code of conduct](/code-of-conduct) throughout the event.

  ::

  ::ff-card

  ## Sponsors

  ::ff-event-sponsor-container
    :ff-event-sponsor{level="major" src="hrt.png" alt="HRT" link="https://www.hudsonrivertrading.com/"}
    :ff-event-sponsor{src="antmicro.png" alt="Antmicro" link="https://antmicro.com"}
  ::


  ORConf is free to attend, but we aim to provide catering and the like during the event. ORConf is also a great way to get your company or brand in front of lots of engineers and hackers on the day, and thousands more through recordings of the event.

  A variety of sponsorship packages are available for this year's ORConf.
  You'll find all of the details in our [sponsorship prospectus](ORConf-2025-Sponsorship-Prospectus.pdf).

  Please get in touch at [orconf@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:orconf@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Sponsorship) if you'd like to explore sponsorship opportunities.

  A variety of sponsorship packages are available for this year's ORConf.

  ORConf is organized by volunteers on behalf of the FOSSi Foundation. We are currently looking for more people to help out with arrangements and putting on the event, so please do [email us](mailto:orconf@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Volunteering) if you would like to volunteer for during the event with setup, AV, or even just local knowledge so we can plan the weekend better.
  ::
::


## Talks (preliminary)

Talks are published regularly as they are submitted.
Check this page regularly for updates.

::ff-event-talks-overview{csvfile="/orconf/2025/talks" view="details"}
::

## Schedule

The conference will run over three days, Friday, September 12 to Sunday, September 14, 2025.
We plan to start on Friday morning at 9am and end the conference on Sunday afternoon.
When planning travel, we suggest you arrive Thursday evening or first thing Friday, and plan to leave Sunday afternoon or evening.

A conference social event will be arranged for Saturday evening.

The detailed schedule of presentations will be available once we have all of the presentation submissions.
All times are subject to change once we get closer to the event.

### Friday: Conference

Conference from around 9am - 6pm.

### Saturday: Conference, lightning talks, and social event

Conference from around 9am to 6pm, followed by the social event.

### Sunday: Unconference and workshops

On Sunday we will have an unconference and workshops to have more time for focused discussions.
Even though the exact schedule and topics to talk about will be created together at the event, you can expect in-depth discussions with key stakeholders in Free and Open Source Silicon Projects, demo sessions, hackathons, and more.

**Community Building for Publicly Funded Projects**

Many open source projects originated from an academic or industrial research environment. Over the last years we see an increasing interest from funding agencies in open source EDA tools, open source design IP and open PDKs. One of the challenges of such projects is to build sustainable communities around the project results.

In this workshop we want to discuss experiences from publicly funded projects and jointly formulate goals and guidelines that can be useful.

Contact: [Stefan Wallentowitz](mailto:stefan@fossi-foundation.org)

**Discussion topics proposed**

* Timing closure challenges on your open-source projects (Matthew Guthaus)

**Ideas for other unconference and workshops?**

For exampe, at last year's ORConf we had fantastic sessions on
* cocotb
* EU Roadmap
* Amaranth
* Open Source DFT and in-field debug
* Clash and Haskell
* Surfer

What deep-dives will we have at ORConf?
It's up to all of us!

Feel free to submit your ideas ahead of ORConf or propose them throughout the conference.

## Venue

ORConf 2025 will be held at in Valencia, Spain at the School of Informatics (ETSINF) of the Universitat Politècnica de València.

Address: ETS de Ingeniería Informática, Camí de Vera, s/n, Algirós, 46022 València, Valencia, Spanien ([Google Maps](https://www.google.com/maps/place/UPV+-+ETS+Enginyeria+Inform%C3%A0tica+(ETSINF)/@39.482437,-0.346845,16z/data=!3m1!5s0xd60489ccfe58927:0x9e05d6ff2519e37b!4m6!3m5!1s0xd604883326cd6c7:0xded925519ef13eaf!8m2!3d39.482437!4d-0.346845!16s%2Fg%2F11c1qy0y7k?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI1MDcwOS4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D), [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/?mlat=39.482388&mlon=-0.346922#map=19/39.482388/-0.346922)).
