---
layout: post
title: "Wrapup of the RISC-V Event in Munich"
description: ""
category:
tags: []
author: Stefan Wallentowitz
date: 2017-04-07
---

Two weeks ago we organized an [event](/riscv-munich) at TU Munich,
Germany, that featured talks around RISC-V, lowRISC and the FOSSi
Foundation. It was a great event with very interesting discussions.

The first talk was from myself about FOSSi and the FOSSi Foundation. I
have put the focus on a high level view on the issues we identified
and how we want to tackle them. The feedback was positive, but one of
the major concerns raised in a question was how patents relate to our
activities. Patents are important in the semiconductor industry and
problems around patents are not unique to FOSSi, but we should address
this topic as part of our legal activities that currently focus on
licenses.

 * [Stefan's Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/wallento/free-and-open-source-silicon)
 * [Video on Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_si_WfWAohY),
 unfortunately we had technical issues with the sound

The second talk was from Krste Asanovic who gave an excellent talk
again around the technical background of RISC-V, the RISC-V Foundation
as governance body for the RISC-V instruction set architecture, and
finally the recent actual hardware their startup SiFive launched. An
interesting question that came up in the Q&A session was about why
comapnies like AMD for example are involved in RISC-V. Krste mentioned
that on an x86 processor chip there are actually still some other
controllers with some other in-house ISA, and RISC-V may probably
become a factor for that kind of small deeply embedded cores. On
similar lines, NVIDIA plans to replace their custom ISA for the
control cores in their GPUs.

 * [Krste's Slides](/assets/RISCV-20170323-Munich.pdf)
 * [Video on Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hWOnU2ELBLc)

Finally, Rob Mullins presented the lowRISC project and their current
state and vision for the next years. Technically, I was happy to see
that the tagged memory support will be available again soon and I
think Rob gave a good overview of it. Beside that Rob highlighted the
importance of collaboration in academia to build meaningful research
platforms, which we as the FOSSi Foundation strongly want to encourage
and foster.

 * [Rob's Slides](/assets/lowRISC-Munich.pdf)
 * [Video on Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g_5jRnCnNU0)

After the talks everyone came together for networking, snacks and
beers, which were kindly sponsored by the RISC-V Foundation.

On Friday we organized some Birds-of-a-Feather sessions that were
attended by roughly ten people. In the first session we talked about
open source ASICs and how a path to a stabalized process/node with a
FOSSi ecosystem could look like. We will followup this topic over the
next months. After that Krste talked about the RISC-V Foundation and
the governance framework, followed by discussions around the software
ecosystem.

Overall, I think the event was a great success and I had the
impression the attendants really enjoyed it too.

**Update:** Our friends of Antmicro also have
  [blogged about the event](http://antmicro.com/blog/2017/04/risc-v-munich/).
