content/downunderflow/2026/0.index.md, before:

---
title: Down Underflow 2026
layout: default
head:
  title: "Down Underflow 2026: February 28, 2026 in Sydney, Australia"
  description: |
    The Down Underflow conference is a weekend of presentations and networking
    dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open
    source semiconductor community, and is run by volunteers from the FOSSi Foundation.

    Down Underflow 2026 is on Saturday February 28, 2026 in Sydney, Australia.
  image: https://www.fossi-foundation.org/downunderflow/2024/downunderflow-logo.png
eventbriteEventId: 1772979422179
---

::ff-signpost-banner
---
title: Down Underflow 2026
class: "bg-[url('/images/banner-orconf.jpg')]"
---

Saturday February 28, 2026 in Sydney, Australia

The Down Underflow conference is a weekend of presentations and networking dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open source silicon community, and is run by the FOSSi Foundation and its volunteers.
::


::ff-supporting-content
## Down Underflow 2026

The FOSSi Foundation is proud to announce the inaugural installment of Down Underflow, a conference dedicated to free and open source silicon to be held in the southern hemisphere over the weekend of Saturday February 28 and Sunday March 1st, 2026 in [Sydney, Australia](#venue).

Down Underflow is a weekend of presentations and networking for the open source silicon community. Browse through previous installments of FOSSi Foundation events, the shape of which Down Underflow will take, [here](https://fossi-foundation.org/events/archive).

Questions? Ping the organizers via email at [downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Question).
::


::ff-container

::ff-cards

  ::ff-card{class="col-span-2"}

  ## Register

  Down Underflow is free to attend.
  
  If you are able to, please considering assisting with the costs of the event via a "Pay what you want" ticket with an donation.
  If you are attending Down Underflow on behalf of your company, you are encouraged to donate with a professional ticket.
  Please choose *one* option in the checkout process -- you do *not* need a "Free" ticket in addition to a "Pay what you want" ticket.

  :ff-eventbrite-embedded-checkout{:eventId=eventbriteEventId type="modal" buttonText="Register for Down Underflow 2026"}

  ## Submit a talk

  Presentations are submitted through :FfEventbriteLink{:eventId=eventbriteEventId text="the Eventbrite registration interface"}.

  ## Code of conduct

  We expect all Down Underflow participants to adhere to the the [FOSSi Foundation code of conduct](/code-of-conduct) throughout the event.

  ## Let's talk!

  Join the [#downunderflow2026:fossi-foundation.org](https://element.fossi-chat.org/#/room/#downunderflow2026:fossi-foundation.org) Matrix room to chat with other participants at the conference, share additional information about the talks, about traveling to and from Sydney, and what else comes to your mind!

  ## Venue

  Down Underflow 2026 will be held in Sydney, Australia at a venue close to the city which is to be confirmed closed to the time. The venue will be close by Sydney's Central Station, so arrange accommodation which will be convenient to there.

  ## Social event

  Saturday evening after the talks at the conference venue have finished we will put on drinks and a dinner for the conference attendees. Venue details TBD.

  ::

  ::ff-card

  ## Supporters

  We thank all our sponsors, exhibitors, and all participants who donated by buying a Pay-what-you-want or Professional Ticket.

  ::ff-event-sponsor-container
    :ff-event-sponsor{level="gold" src="/downunderflow/2026/S3B-Logo-Horizontal.png" alt="S3B" link="https://s3b.au/"}
  ::

  Down Underflow is free to attend, but we aim to provide catering and the like during the event. Down Underflow is also a great way to get your company or brand in front of lots of engineers and hackers on the day, and thousands more through recordings of the event.

  A variety of sponsorship packages are available for this year's Down Underflow.
  You'll find all of the details in our [sponsorship prospectus](Down-Underflow-2026-Sponsorship-Prospectus.pdf).

  Please get in touch at [downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Sponsorship) if you'd like to explore sponsorship opportunities.

  A variety of sponsorship packages are available for this year's Down Underflow.

  Down Underflow is organized by volunteers on behalf of the FOSSi Foundation. We are currently looking for more people to help out with arrangements and putting on the event, so please do [email us](mailto:downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Volunteering) if you would like to volunteer for during the event with setup, AV, or even just local knowledge so we can plan the weekend better.
  ::
::

## Schedule


### Saturday, Feb 28: Conference, lightning talks, and social event

Schedule to be posted when talk submissions have been received.


### Sunday, March 1: Unconference and workshops

On Sunday March 1st, should there be sufficient interest, we can make available spaces for folks to meet and discuss projects of interest and even hold workshops.

**Ideas for other unconference and workshops?**

For example, at previous FOSSi Foundation evnets we've had fantastic sessions on
* cocotb
* Amaranth
* Open Source DFT and in-field debug
* Clash and Haskell
* Surfer

What deep-dives will we have at Down Underflow?
It's up to all of us!

Feel free to submit your ideas ahead of Down Underflow or propose them throughout the conference.


## Talks

TBD
::

Commit message:

Update event page, add talks info section, few other pieces

content/downunderflow/2026/0.index.md, after:

---
title: Down Underflow 2026
layout: default
head:
  title: "Down Underflow 2026: February 28, 2026 in Sydney, Australia"
  description: |
    The Down Underflow conference is a weekend of presentations and networking
    dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open
    source semiconductor community, and is run by volunteers from the FOSSi Foundation.

    Down Underflow 2026 is on Saturday February 28, 2026 in Sydney, Australia.
  image: https://www.fossi-foundation.org/downunderflow/2024/downunderflow-logo.png
eventbriteEventId: 1772979422179
---

::ff-signpost-banner
---
title: Down Underflow 2026
class: "bg-[url('/images/banner-orconf.jpg')]"
---

Saturday February 28, 2026 in Sydney, Australia

The Down Underflow conference is a weekend of presentations and networking dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open source silicon community, and is run by the FOSSi Foundation and its volunteers.
::


::ff-supporting-content
## Down Underflow 2026

The FOSSi Foundation is proud to announce the inaugural installment of Down Underflow, a conference dedicated to free and open source silicon to be held in the southern hemisphere over the weekend of Saturday February 28 and Sunday March 1st, 2026 in [Sydney, Australia](#venue).

Down Underflow is a weekend of presentations and networking for the open source silicon community. Browse through previous installments of FOSSi Foundation events, the shape of which Down Underflow will take, [here](https://fossi-foundation.org/events/archive).

Questions? Ping the organizers via email at [downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Question).
::


::ff-container

::ff-cards

  ::ff-card{class="col-span-2"}

  ## Register

  Down Underflow is free to attend.
  
  If you are able to, please considering assisting with the costs of the event via a "Pay what you want" ticket with an donation.
  If you are attending Down Underflow on behalf of your company, you are encouraged to donate with a professional ticket.
  Please choose *one* option in the checkout process -- you do *not* need a "Free" ticket in addition to a "Pay what you want" ticket.

  :ff-eventbrite-embedded-checkout{:eventId=eventbriteEventId type="modal" buttonText="Register for Down Underflow 2026"}

  ## Submit a talk

  Presentations are submitted through :FfEventbriteLink{:eventId=eventbriteEventId text="the Eventbrite registration interface"}.

  There are still slots available for regular and lightning talks. Please do err on the side of presenting if you're unsure!

  Suitable topics are your work on, with or around open source semiconductor IP, tooling, flows. Even if "all" you've done is successfully (or not!) implement an open source IP or tool, come and share your story! We'd love to hear your story.

  ## Code of conduct

  We expect all Down Underflow participants to adhere to the the [FOSSi Foundation code of conduct](/code-of-conduct) throughout the event.

  ## Let's talk!

  Join the [#downunderflow2026:fossi-foundation.org](https://element.fossi-chat.org/#/room/#downunderflow2026:fossi-foundation.org) Matrix room to chat with other participants at the conference, share additional information about the talks, about traveling to and from Sydney, and what else comes to your mind!

  ## Venue

  Down Underflow 2026 will be held at [the offices of Morse Micro in Surry Hills](https://maps.app.goo.gl/Nuxce4i5siURFKkx7), Sydney, Australia. It is at most a 10 minute walk from Sydney's Central Station.

  Details for access to the venue on the day will be emailed to attendees after registering for the event via the [link above](#register).

  ## Social event

  Saturday evening after the talks at the conference venue have finished we will put on drinks and a dinner for the conference attendees. The venue will be walking distance from the conference site.

  ::

  ::ff-card

  ## Supporters

  We thank all our sponsors, exhibitors, and all participants who donated by buying a Pay-what-you-want or Professional Ticket.

  ::ff-event-sponsor-container
    :ff-event-sponsor{level="gold" src="/downunderflow/2026/S3B-Logo-Horizontal.png" alt="S3B" link="https://s3b.au/"}
  ::

  Down Underflow is free to attend, but we aim to provide catering and the like during the event. Down Underflow is also a great way to get your company or brand in front of lots of engineers and hackers on the day, and thousands more through recordings of the event.

  A variety of sponsorship packages are available for this year's Down Underflow.
  You'll find all of the details in our [sponsorship prospectus](Down-Underflow-2026-Sponsorship-Prospectus.pdf).

  Please get in touch at [downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Sponsorship) if you'd like to explore sponsorship opportunities.

  A variety of sponsorship packages are available for this year's Down Underflow.

  Down Underflow is organized by volunteers on behalf of the FOSSi Foundation. We are currently looking for more people to help out with arrangements and putting on the event, so please do [email us](mailto:downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Volunteering) if you would like to volunteer for during the event with setup, AV, or even just local knowledge so we can plan the weekend better.
  ::
::

## Schedule


### Saturday, Feb 28: Conference, lightning talks, and social event

Schedule to be posted closer to the event.

### Sunday, March 1: Unconference and workshops

Still TBD: On Sunday March 1st, should there be sufficient interest, we can make available spaces for folks to meet and discuss projects of interest and even hold workshops.

**Ideas for other unconference and workshops?**

For example, at previous FOSSi Foundation evnets we've had fantastic sessions on
* cocotb
* Amaranth
* Open Source DFT and in-field debug
* Clash and Haskell
* Surfer

What deep-dives will we have at Down Underflow?
It's up to all of us!

Feel free to submit your ideas ahead of Down Underflow or propose them throughout the conference.


## Talks

::ff-event-talks-overview{csvfile="/downunderflow/2026/talks" view="details"}
::

::
