---
title: Down Underflow 2026
layout: default
head:
  title: "Down Underflow 2026: February 28, 2026 in Sydney, Australia"
  description: |
    The Down Underflow conference is a weekend of presentations and networking
    dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open
    source semiconductor community, and is run by volunteers from the FOSSi Foundation.

    Down Underflow 2026 is on Saturday February 28, 2026 in Sydney, Australia.
  image: https://www.fossi-foundation.org/downunderflow/2024/downunderflow-logo.png
eventbriteEventId: 1772979422179
---

::ff-signpost-banner
---
title: Down Underflow 2026
class: "bg-[url('/images/banner-orconf.jpg')]"
---

Saturday February 28, 2026 in Sydney, Australia

The Down Underflow conference is a weekend of presentations and networking dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open source silicon community, and is run by the FOSSi Foundation and its volunteers.
::


::ff-supporting-content
## Down Underflow 2026

The FOSSi Foundation is proud to announce the inaugural installment of Down Underflow, a conference dedicated to free and open source silicon to be held in the southern hemisphere over the weekend of Saturday February 28 and Sunday March 1st, 2026 in [Sydney, Australia](#venue).

Down Underflow is a weekend of presentations and networking for the open source silicon community. Browse through previous installments of FOSSi Foundation events, the shape of which Down Underflow will take, [here](https://fossi-foundation.org/events/archive).

Questions? Ping the organizers via email at [downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Question).
::


::ff-container

::ff-cards

  ::ff-card{class="col-span-2"}

  ## Register

  Down Underflow is free to attend.
  
  If you are able to, please considering assisting with the costs of the event via a "Pay what you want" ticket with an donation.
  If you are attending Down Underflow on behalf of your company, you are encouraged to donate with a professional ticket.
  Please choose *one* option in the checkout process -- you do *not* need a "Free" ticket in addition to a "Pay what you want" ticket.

  :ff-eventbrite-embedded-checkout{:eventId=eventbriteEventId type="modal" buttonText="Register for Down Underflow 2026"}

  ## Submit a talk

  Presentations are submitted through :FfEventbriteLink{:eventId=eventbriteEventId text="the Eventbrite registration interface"}.

  There are still slots available for regular and lightning talks. Please do err on the side of presenting if you're unsure!

  Suitable topics are your work on, with or around open source semiconductor IP, tooling, flows. Even if "all" you've done is successfully (or not!) implement an open source IP or tool, come and share, we'd love to hear your story!

  ## Code of conduct

  We expect all Down Underflow participants to adhere to the the [FOSSi Foundation code of conduct](/code-of-conduct) throughout the event.

  ## Let's talk!

  Join the [#downunderflow2026:fossi-foundation.org](https://element.fossi-chat.org/#/room/#downunderflow2026:fossi-foundation.org) Matrix room to chat with other participants at the conference, share additional information about the talks, about traveling to and from Sydney, and what else comes to your mind!

  ## Venue

  Down Underflow 2026 will be held at [the offices of Morse Micro in Surry Hills](https://maps.app.goo.gl/Nuxce4i5siURFKkx7), Sydney, Australia. It is at most a 10 minute walk from Sydney's Central Station.

  Details for access to the venue on the day will be emailed to attendees after registering for the event via the [link above](#register).

  ## Social event

  Saturday evening after the talks at the conference venue have finished we will put on drinks and a dinner for the conference attendees. The venue will be walking distance from the conference site.

  ::

  ::ff-card

  ## Supporters

  We thank all our sponsors, exhibitors, and all participants who donated by buying a Pay-what-you-want or Professional Ticket.

  ::ff-event-sponsor-container
    :ff-event-sponsor{level="gold" src="/downunderflow/2026/S3B-Logo-Horizontal.png" alt="S3B" link="https://s3b.au/"}
  ::

  Down Underflow is free to attend, but we aim to provide catering and the like during the event. Down Underflow is also a great way to get your company or brand in front of lots of engineers and hackers on the day, and thousands more through recordings of the event.

  A variety of sponsorship packages are available for this year's Down Underflow.
  You'll find all of the details in our [sponsorship prospectus](Down-Underflow-2026-Sponsorship-Prospectus.pdf).

  Please get in touch at [downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Sponsorship) if you'd like to explore sponsorship opportunities.

  A variety of sponsorship packages are available for this year's Down Underflow.

  Down Underflow is organized by volunteers on behalf of the FOSSi Foundation. We are currently looking for more people to help out with arrangements and putting on the event, so please do [email us](mailto:downunderflow@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Volunteering) if you would like to volunteer for during the event with setup, AV, or even just local knowledge so we can plan the weekend better.
  ::
::

## Schedule


### Saturday, Feb 28: Conference, lightning talks, and social event

Schedule to be posted closer to the event.

### Sunday, March 1: Tiny Tapeout Workshop

**Tiny Tapeout free workshop: Learn, design, and fab your own silicon project**

Sponsored by [IQonIC Works Pty Ltd (an ASTC company)](https://iqonicworks.com)

Led by [Anton Maurovic](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anton-maurovic/)

Time: 10:00 until 14:30

Location: Same [venue](#venue) as Down Underflow

[Tiny Tapeout](https://tinytapeout.com) enables what seemed impossible: Have something of your own design fabricated on a real silicon chip, even if you have no experience.

40 workshop seats are open ([registration essential](https://forms.gle/72LC81dy7NhPTNvU8)) to anyone at any skill level, and will be held at the same [venue](#venue) as the conference.

Using just a web browser on your laptop, we'll guide you to completion in 4 hours (plus lunch) using the open source flow. 15 free tapeout slots are up for grabs, thanks to sponsorship by Australian ASIC design firm, [IQonIC Works Pty Ltd](https://iqonicworks.com) -- Tapeout submission criteria to be decided closer to the event, but even the simplest designs by total beginners are eligible for fabrication on the next Tiny Tapeout community open source chip (available separately for purchase in a dev/demo kit).

Beginners can drag and drop simple logic gates. Personalise an example project, or create your own from scratch. More experienced or ambitious? Let's talk Verilog. See the precise, microscopic 3D structures that your design turns into. Try out your design with simulation and tests. Push that "submit project" button and feel the rush of being part of a big community making something ultra tiny (but a big deal). Maybe nab some Tiny Tapeout swag while you're at it!

**Register for the Tiny Tapeout workshop** separately via [the form linked here](https://forms.gle/72LC81dy7NhPTNvU8).

Please ALSO [register for Down Underflow](#register) if you haven't, as it is a requirement for access to the venue.

The coordinator will email registrants with a confirmation email containing further details on how to prepare for the workshop.


## Talks

::ff-event-talks-overview{csvfile="/downunderflow/2026/talks" view="details"}
::

::
