---
title: Latch-Up 2026
layout: default
head:
  title: "Latch-Up 2026: May 1-3 in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada"
  description: |
    The Latch-Up conference is a weekend of presentations and networking
    dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open
    source digital design community, much like its European sister conference
    ORConf, run by the FOSSi Foundation.

    Latch-Up 2026 is from Friday to Sunday May 1-3, 2026 in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.
  image: https://www.fossi-foundation.org/latch-up/2026/latchup-logo.png
eventbriteEventId: 1980214793754
---

::ff-signpost-banner
---
title: Latch-Up 2026
class: "bg-[url('/images/banner-orconf.jpg')]"
---

Friday to Sunday May 1&ndash;3, 2026 in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.
The Latch-Up conference is a weekend of presentations and networking dedicated to free and open source silicon. It's an event for the open source digital design community, much like its European sister conference ORConf, run by the FOSSi Foundation.
::


::ff-supporting-content
## Latch-Up 2026 invites the free and open source silicon community to Canada!

The FOSSi Foundation is proud to announce Latch-Up, a conference dedicated to free and open source silicon to be held over the weekend of Friday May 1 to Sunday May 3 in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.

Latch-Up is a weekend of presentations and networking for the open source digital design community, much like its European sister conference [ORConf](https://orconf.org).

Questions? Send an email to [latch-up@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:latch-up@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Question).
::


::ff-container

## Register

Latch-Up is free to attend.
If you are able to, please help running the event by considering a "Pay what you want" ticket with an donation.
If you are attending Latch-Up on behalf of their company are encouraged to donate in the form of a professional ticket.
Please choose *one* option in the checkout process -- you do *not* need a "Free" ticket in addition to a "Pay what you want" ticket.

:ff-eventbrite-embedded-checkout{:eventId=eventbriteEventId type="modal" buttonText="Register for Latch-Up 2026"}

## Submit a talk

Presentations are submitted through :FfEventbriteLink{:eventId=eventbriteEventId text="the Eventbrite registration interface"}.

Please make your submissions as early as you can, as the presentation slots are likely to fill up quickly.

We aim to give as many people as possible the opportunity to present their exciting work on free and open source silicon.
To accomodate for that we will determine the duration of a full talk once all submissions are in.
Historically, full talks ran for 10 minutes (plus time for questions).
Lighning talks will be 3 minutes.
The exact amount of time you'll get will be communicated on acceptance of your talk.

**Latch-Up invites presentations on all aspects of free and open source silicon**, including (but not limited to):
* IP cores and design examples
* Verification tools and methodology
* Hardware description languages
* EDA tools
* Physical design and PDKs

All presentations are expected to cover projects and tools that are available under a free and open source license.

## Code of conduct

We ask all Latch-Up participants to adhere to the the [FOSSi Foundation code of conduct](/code-of-conduct) throughout the event.

## Sponsors

Latch-Up is free to attend, but we aim to provide catering and the like during the event. Latch-Up is also a great way to get your company or brand in front of lots of engineers and hackers on the day, and thousands more through recordings of the event.

Please get in touch at [latch-up@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:latch-up@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Sponsorship) if you'd like to explore sponsorship opportunities.

A variety of sponsorship packages are available for this year's Latch-Up.
You'll find all of the details in our [sponsorship prospectus](/latch-up/2026/latch-up_2026_sponsorship_prospectus.pdf).

Latch-Up is organized by volunteers on behalf of the FOSSi Foundation. We are currently looking for more people to help out with arrangements and putting on the event, so please do [email us](mailto:latch-up@fossi-foundation.org?subject=Volunteering) if you would like to volunteer for during the event with setup, AV, or even just local knowledge so we can plan the weekend better.

## Schedule

The conference will run over three days, Friday, May 1 to Sunday, May 3, 2026.
We plan to start on Friday morning at 9am and end the conference on Sunday afternoon.
When planning travel, we suggest you arrive Thursday evening or first thing Friday, and plan to leave Sunday afternoon or evening.

A conference social event will be arranged for Saturday evening.
Friday evening will not be planned but often folks arrange their own informal dinner and drinks plans, which we encourage.

The detailed schedule of presentations will be available once we have all of the presentation submissions.
All times are subject to change once we get closer to the event.

### Friday: Conference

Conference from 9am - 6pm.

### Saturday: Conference, lighning talks, and social event

Conference from 9am - 6pm.

### Sunday: Unconference and workshops

On Sunday we will have an unconference and workshops to have more time for focused discussions.
Even though the exact schedule and topics to talk about will be created together at the event, you can expect in-depth discussions with key stakeholders in Free and Open Source Silicon Projects, demo sessions, hackathrons, and more.

For exampe, at last year's ORConf we had fantastic sessions on
* cocotb
* EU Roadmap
* Amaranth
* Open Source DFT and in-field debug
* Clash and Haskell
* Surfer

What deep-dives will we have at Latch-Up?
It's up to all of us!

## Venue

Latch-Up 2026 will be held at the [University of Waterloo](https://uwaterloo.ca/) in Ontario, Canada.
