---
layout: content
title: About us
---


## Who we are

:::ff-para-lg
  The FOSSi Foundation exists to promote and protect the open source silicon chip movement. It actively encourages the community’s growth and is helping to maintain the open spirit of the movement, through events, educational programmes and working groups. With an international membership of experts from academia and industry, it supports new open source initiatives and collaborations – offering free advice to governments and policy makers, corporations, academics and hobbyists. As a not-for profit organisation, the foundation is independent of any commercial interests and acts as a steward in support of open source projects which broadly benefit the open source silicon community. FOSSi is an acronym for Free and Open Source Silicon.
:::

## Learn more about our work

::ff-section-top
  :::ff-section-top-item
  ---
  icon: community
  title: Community
  description: Our events are remembered for being an inclusive and fun atmosphere for learning.
  linkTitle: Upcoming events
  linkTarget: /events
  color: ultraviolet
  ---
  :::

  :::ff-section-top-item
  ---
  icon: innovation
  title: Innovation
  description: Our members expertise is freely shared to inspire new initiatives and projects.
  linkTitle: Get involved
  linkTarget: /get-involved
  color: nasu-purple
  ---
  :::

  :::ff-section-top-item
  ---
  icon: guardianship
  title: Guardianship
  description: We are the custodian of the free and open source silicon movement and will protect it as it grows.
  linkTitle: The FOSSi Foundation manifesto
  linkTarget: /about-us/manifesto
  color: fuchsia-flourish
  ---
  :::

  :::ff-section-top-item
  ---
  icon: resources
  title: Resources
  description: FOSSi is a good way for hobbyists and academics to collaborate and re-use existing building blocks to build their own systems.
  linkTitle: FOSSi projects
  linkTarget: /projects
  color: pink-piano
  ---
  :::
